for me I've been smoking marijuana since
I was 12 to 27 I've had only the longest
scent of sobriety I've ever had was a
month so when I was going through that
whole month period it was just extreme
hell I hated myself
I couldn't even Drive I hated traffic I
hated how people just looked I hated how
I looked I wanted to get a word I gave
it I wanted it away from me my anxiety
and my hate towards everyone goes up
through the roof so much and I realized
just like I guess reality just hits me
so hard that I can't deal with life on
life's terms without marijuana I can't
be Who I am right now talking to you
right now being super cool and chill I
can't do that if I was off marijuana
it's estimated 9% of cannabis users will
develop an addiction or dependency which
is less than alcohol and nicotine but
for those who start talking as teenagers
it's about 17% I gotta tell you it's a
very psychological addiction when you
stop it's some physical addictions
there's some physical I mean you stop
sleeping you get the chills you get body
aches you get restless leg syndrome
restless leg syndrome is the worst part
of it I would say I have no patients I
have my tempers through the roof and
that is not like me I
there's sleep is out the window
forget about sleep I'm not sleeping for
about three days until my body crashes
and then I'll sleep for about four hours
and then that'll be my sleep for the
next three days until I crash again and
another like and that and food is
definitely out the window don't want to
eat food at all appetite is gone at 15
it meant everything by the time high
school was over Vanessa Markov and her
friends were smoking pot every day
Markov admits she probably wouldn't have
listened to anyone's advice but she
regrets spending more than a decade of
her life in a drug-induced haze
I was extremely lethargic I went from
being an athlete to being a couch potato
I was a kid I absolutely didn't think it
was addictive because no one had ever
talked about it being it
fifteen years later she found herself in
a doctor's office pleading for help with
multiple mental health issues I just
started to have extreme panic attacks
and very high anxiety brutal social
anxiety to the point where I had to be
either drunk or high in order to really
relate to people or feel comfortable in
my own skin um one day do I want to not
do smoke marijuana and just be sober
absolutely do I think I can I don't know
I'm concerned about living in a culture
where I'm surrounded by drug addicts but
I'm even more concerned about living in
a culture that worships positive
thinking one of the problems with the
cult of positive thinking is that it
prevents people from really engaging in
reflection and regret I think that's the
fundamental problem we're facing in the
year 2020 not so much the fact that
people refuse to acknowledge that
marijuana causes brain damage that
marijuana harms them or in a simple
sense impairs them just in the 1 to 1
face to face basis you can normally
overcome the hostility of the scientific
facts through simple sort of Socratic
method or explaining parallel instances
if someone tells you self confidently
that they smoked marijuana every day
when they were in University and they
still managed to get grades that were
all eight pluses let's say if someone
tells you that you can sit back to them
how would you feel if you met someone
who told you the same thing but who
drank three cans of beer every day it's
possible to get straight A's in
university while drinking three cans of
beer every day that doesn't mean your
life wouldn't be better if you were
sober
that doesn't mean beer is harmless that
doesn't mean the beer didn't have any
negative impact on your life on your
health or even on your say psychological
development
all right if you have two identical twin
brothers and one drank beer everyday and
one didn't one was completely sober and
they went through the same four years of
University and got the same grades which
one do you think is leading a more more
meaningful life just on this level it's
quite easy to get someone who's devoted
to making excuses to marijuana to stop
and reflect and realize yeah you know
what I am just making excuses for a bad
habit so the hostility to the scientific
facts behind the case are one thing and
that's shallow we can engage with that
on this kind of shallow Socratic level
the hostility to reflecting on mistakes
you made in your own life reflecting on
excuses you've made for those mistakes
and really being willing to regret it
that's deep that's that's as deep as it
gets and it's very very hard to overcome
that with people it's very hard for me
to evoke even with my own father or with
my own mother get them to admit they did
something wrong
20 years ago or just get me to reflect
them why why can't you just write this
you know what I mean and then I see the
flip side of it I see the other side of
it when I openly regret things and it
often astonishes the people around me
like I'll just openly say that I regret
moving to Cambodia and study from the
Cambodian language for me it's that's
not a big deal I can talk about what my
hopes and expectations were what I was
trying to accomplish and then how things
turned out
I can regret that why not um you know I
can regret relationships with women I
had in my life
I can regret choosing to study the
Chinese language I can regret choosing
say the Japanese language I can regret
myriad decisions I've made in my life
and those regrets I don't think of
something I like to I do not think of
the regret as something negative that
I'm carrying with me is something that
weighs me down I think that if I were
living with those mistakes without
examining those mistakes and feelings
detachment above those mistakes and
engaging in analysis those mistakes and
regretting them I think if you're
carrying those mistakes with you along
with this kind of excuse making
mentality that you never did anything
wrong or you did the best you could or
it was all somebody else's fault I think
that I think that really does what are
you doing I'm now 41 years old this
mentality is precisely what I see
members of my own generation carrying
around with them I see them burdened not
just by their drug addictions and their
brain damage but by the excuses they are
deeply committed to the excuses they're
continuing to make all their lives long
you just heard from a man who started
smoking marijuana at 12 years old there
are other people who started smoking
marijuana at 15 16 and what have you
naturally at that age your rationale or
your excuses for why for example you
might believe well it's less harmful
than cocaine it's less harmful than
whiskey whatever the ration are
committed to there's no way that that
rationale would endure and still be
valid into middle age even if you're
talking about a rationale for something
that's that's positive in your life my
ex-wife became a vegan as a as a child
I'm sorry she was vegetarian first and
later became vegan I misspoke but she
became committed to vegetarianism when
she was a child and when her reasoning
was childish and naturally she grew out
of it and I said to her look I don't
think less of you for this it's
inevitable that whatever philosophy you
commits you whatever reason you commit
to from the perspective of an 11 year
old that's not going to seem meaningful
or worthwhile or valid when you're
looking back at it at 21 years old you
say how did I talk myself into it this
is ridiculous and that doesn't even mean
you were wrong like I do think being a
vegetarian is correct I do think being a
vegan is even more correct but at 21 or
reasons for being vegetarian your
reasons are being vegan are not going to
be the reasons of an 11 year old or a 12
year old and for me the saddest and most
dangerous thing of all is that this drug
culture brings with it this culture of
making excuses what I hear from
marijuana smokers again and again is the
claim that this drug makes them a better
person I find that really deeply
disturbing so your opinion of yourself
is that if you were not using a sedative
on a daily basis
you'd be a worse person what does that
say about you and what does it say about
our culture in the 21st century that is
now considered normal and even treated
most dangerously of all as a scientific
fact
[Music]